the United Nations is warning that
humanitarian operations inside Gaza are
nearing collapse the organization says
it's no longer able to distribute food
Aid in the southern city of Rafa due to
a lack of supplies and fears over safety
it says its main Aid Agency for
Palestinian refugees unra and the world
food program are unable to access their
warehouses in Rafa because of Israel's
ongoing military
operation after fleeing Rafa many come
here to De albala camp in central gasa
but the situation here is not much
better people cue for basic supplies as
temperatures sore they're desperate for
water if there is no water we can't
shower if there is no water we can't
drink if there is no water we can't do
the dishes we can't do anything life
stops we're suffering a
lot with heavy fighting around Rafa the
Israeli military says nearly 900,000
th000 people have fled the area these
satellite images show the scale of the
movement in recent weeks hundreds of
tents and shelters have been
removed the UN says humanitarian
operations in gasa are near collapse as
almost no Aid can enter and they no
longer have access to its warehouses in
Rafa our colleagues at Ana report that
today the agency's Distribution Center
as well as the world food program's
warehouses both both in Rafa are now
inaccessible due to ongoing military
operation Ana says that its Health
Centers have not received any medical
supplies for the past 10 days despite
this healthc Care staff continue to
provide thousands of medical
consultations each day at health centers
that are still operational people had
hoped the pier constructed by the US
would bring some urgently needed relief
but so far it hasn't been nearly enough
we have been waiting for this aid for
hours and we have not received anything
it just doesn't reach us I Ask America
the International Community and all the
Muslim world to end this war all we want
is for this war to
end the US says is working on creating
alternative routes to speed up Aid
deliveries until that happens many
people leave here
empty-handed let's bring in our
Jerusalem correspondent Rebecca ritters
uh for the latest Rebecca we just heard
the UN there saying that Aid
distribution centers in Rafa are now
inaccessible can you tell us why Israel
is blocking Aid operations in
Rafa well Terry Israel maintains that it
isn't blocking uh the distribution of
Aid or it isn't blocking I should say
those Road Crossings uh into Gaza and by
its own statistics says that on Monday
for example more than 400 trucks were
inspected Ed and transferred to Gaza
though when you drill down into those
numbers it looks as though some 40
trucks were crossed into Gaza through
that Northern Ares Crossing and the
other numbers that they refer to um are
mainly these the ashdod port for example
and crossings uh with the Jordan and the
West Bank that then come through and to
be transferred into Gaza of course they
also include numbers from this jots this
temporary Pier that the US have built
that you just heard about in that report
there uh so much fewer than the 400
trucks really getting into Gaza and
we're seeing from un figures that only
69 trucks have made it through since the
Rafa uh incursion began some two weeks
ago so really kind of um discrepancy in
the figures there and of course as you
hearing real real distribution issues uh
even once the aid does pass in and
trying to get it to those desperate
people who desperately need it um so
when we look at the numbers when we
we're looking pre-war 500 trucks a day
going into Gaza uh you know humanitarian
organizations saying 600 trucks a day
minimum are needed to avert some kind of
this humanitarian catastrophe that we're
seeing when you look at the figures you
can see the discrepancy in numbers of
what's needed and what's getting in
Rebecca can you briefly bring us up to
date on what Israel is doing with its
military operation there in Rafa we
heard in our report 900,000 people have
already left that southern
city well that is what we're hear ing
some 900,000 that's uh very close to the
number of just over 1 million who were
Sheltering there so a large percentage
of that population now having left we're
hearing though where they've gone to is
also a dire humanitarian situation the
Israel Israelis saying that they've set
up these humanitarian zones but people
on the ground humanitarian organizations
saying that they are uh not satisfactory
and not able to cope with the huge
amount of numbers of people who are
trying to head there uh the operation
continues and we've seen time and time
again that Israel is adamant uh on
continuing its operation in Rafa though
it has in recent days said that it is
going to try to mitigate or uh under
pressure from the United States limit
these operations in Rafa as opposed to
going into a full scale operation as we
saw in other cities Rebecca thank you
very much our Jerusalem correspondent
Rebecca ritters
there here's what the head of the un's
humanitarian Affairs office for the
region had to say about the situ ation
on the
ground the closure of Rafa cring as
severed access to fuel for humanitarian
activities the entry of critical
humanitarian items and curtail the
movement of Staff protection of Civilian
for us remain essential of course as it
is humanitarian asset and supplies uh
and we are seeking assurances from all
parties to the conflict uh that that
they should help us to protect those uh
and ensure respect of of civilians
let's bring in our Washington
correspondent Janelle Duman Janelle
what's the latest you've been hearing
from the UN about the situation
unfolding in
Rafa yes so as we heard the UN has
suspended food distribution in Rafa
their warehouses are inaccessible to
them now earlier we actually reached out
to the UN to ask if they had any
indication of when they might be able to
restart delivery
they quite predictably said no they
don't it would depend very much on the
security situation in Rafa and how it
unfolds now we don't know for certain
how many people are in Rafa exactly some
800,000 people are thoughts have fled
since Israel started its operation there
some two weeks ago it's however thought
that several hundred thousand people are
still there and the situation of course
is very dire we heard from a
spokesperson of the world food program
who said that uh food Aid distribution
had to be stopped in Rafa as well amid
exhausted food stocks she said that food
Aid distribution is ongoing in central
Gaza which is of course where many of
those who fled Rafa fled to but
dwindling stocks there also means that
they may see they may soon see that
Supply exhausted as well she said that
if supplies and food aren't restarted in
Gaza in massive quantities then famine
likee conditions could certainly be
expected there and there was this pier
being built by the US military That was
supposed to provide an alternative entry
point for Aid what's going on with that
because it appears to have
stalled indeed now that us built Pier on
uh that us built Pier on the gazen coast
was meant to accelerate deliveries and
on Friday the first 10 trucks did roll
off of a ship onto that Pier but over
the weekend on Saturday 11 trucks were
stopped by a group of Palestinians
needing food and Aid and in the end only
half of that Convoy made it to the
warehouse and there were no more
deliveries on Sunday and Monday now the
world food program made the point that
this issue of people taking aid from the
convoys and not waiting for that Aid to
be distributed this is going to be an
issue that keeps recurring unless uh the
consistency of food Aid distribution is
guaranteed the fact of the matter is
they see a truck they see a chance to
eat they don't know when they're going
to get another so the world food program
is looking into alternative routs within
Gaza it's looking to reexamine its
Logistics and security measures but of
course this is a very challenging
Endeavor at this particular time time
and Janelle of course there's the US
presidential election looming um how
much of an impact is this having on the
campaign particularly for President Joe
Biden well it's a very big problem for
Joe Biden starting within his own party
you have the more Progressive voices of
his own party critical of Israel and
critical of Biden's handling of the
conflict between Israel uh between
Israel and Gaza and um they are going to
have a problem rallying their base and
convincing them to vote Democrat come
election time also worth noting we've
seen weeks of Campus protests here in
the US as especially young people are
shocked uh by what they see as
Washington enabling suffering in Gaza as
it stands by its military ally Israel we
don't know how that will impact the vote
exactly but we do know that that is an
expression of a widespread
dissatisfaction at Joe Biden's policy
and that will follow him to the election
okay DW is Janelle Dalal L live from
Washington DC thank you for speaking to
us